---
layout: 'guide'
title: 'User Profile'
---

### User Profile

When authenticating using a third-party service such as Facebook or Twitter,
user profile information will often be available.  Each service tends to have
a different way of encoding this information.  To make integration easier,
Passport normalizes profile information to the extent possible.

Normalized profile information conforms to the [contact schema](http://portablecontacts.net/draft-spec.html#schema)
established by [Portable Contacts](http://portablecontacts.net/).  The common
fields available are outlined in the following table.

<dl>
  <dt><code>provider</code> {String}<dt>
  <dd>The provider with which the user authenticated (`facebook`, `twitter`, etc.).</dd>
  <dt><code>id</code> {String}<dt>
  <dd>A unique identifier for the user, as generated by the service provider.</dd>
  <dt><code>displayName</code> {String}<dt>
  <dd>The name of this user, suitable for display.</dd>
  <dt><code>name</code> {Object}<dt>
  <dd>
    <dl>
      <dt><code>familyName</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The family name of this user, or "last name" in most Western languages.</dd>
      <dt><code>givenName</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The given name of this user, or "first name" in most Western languages.</dd>
      <dt><code>middleName</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The middle name of this user.</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
  <dt><code>emails</code> {Array} [n]<dt>
  <dd>
    <dl>
      <dt><code>value</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The actual email address.</dd>
      <dt><code>type</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The type of email address (home, work, etc.).</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
  <dt><code>photos</code> {Array} [n]<dt>
  <dd>
    <dl>
      <dt><code>value</code> {String}<dt>
      <dd>The URL of the image.</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
</dl>

Note that not all of the above fields are available from every service provider.
Some providers may contain additional information not described here.  Consult
the provider-specific documentation for further details.
