# Obtain Access Token

Once the user has granted access, the application can exchange the request token
for an _access token_.  To obtain a request token, the application makes
a request to the service providers's _access token URL_ (`/oauth/access_token`,
in the case of Twitter):

```http
POST /oauth/access_token HTTP/1.1
Host: api.twitter.com
Authorization: OAuth oauth_consumer_key="cChZNFj6T5R0TigYB9yd1w",
  oauth_nonce="a9900fe68e2573b27a37f10fbad6a755",
  oauth_signature_method="HMAC-SHA1",
  oauth_timestamp="1318467427",
  oauth_token="NPcudxy0yU5T3tBzho7iCotZ3cnetKwcTIRlX0iwRl0",
  oauth_verifier="uw7NjWHT6OJ1MpJOXsHfNxoAhPKpgI8BlYDhxEjIBY",
  oauth_version="1.0",
  oauth_signature="39cipBtIOHEEnybAR4sATQTpl2I%3D"
```

The parameters for this request are conveyed in the `Authorization` header.
Let's examine them.

  * `oauth_consumer_key`: Identifies the application to the service provider.
      This is assigned when registering the application with Twitter.
      
  * `oauth_nonce`: A random string uniquely generated by Passport for each
      request, used to help prevent replay attacks.
      
  * `oauth_signature_method`: The signature method used to sign the request.
  
  * `oauth_timestamp`: The number of seconds since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.
  
  * `oauth_token`: The request token obtained previously which the user has now
      either authorized or denied.
  
  * `oauth_verifier`: The verification code received previously as a parameter
      when the service provider redirected the user back to the application's
      callback URL.
  
  * `oauth_version`: The version of OAuth used to authorize the request, set to
      "1.0".
  
  * `oauth_signature`: A cryptographic signature used to authenticate the
      request.  Passport computes this automatically using the application's
      consumer secret and the request token secret.

When Twitter receives this request, it authenticates the application by
verifying that the signature was produced by the corresponding consumer key and
secret along with the request token secret.  It then verifies that the request
token is valid and was issued to the authenticated application.  Finally, it
verifies that verification code is valid.

If the request is valid and authorized, Twitter issues an access token:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

oauth_token=7588892-kagSNqWge8gB1WwE3plnFsJHAZVfxWD7Vb57p0b4&
oauth_token_secret=PbKfYqSryyeKDWz4ebtY3o5ogNLG11WJuZBc9fQrQo
```

Let's examine the parameters in this response.
      
  * `oauth_token`: An access token.
      
  * `oauth_token_secret`: A shared secret used to cryptographically demonstrate
      ownership of the access token when accessing protected resources.

Now that the application has obtained an access token, it can [access the user
profile](../profile/).
